Good morning, folks.
Happy hump day.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait,
wait, wait, wait, wait.
You see that the old commercial? Geico.
Hump day. All right, so hope you're all
doing well.
I'm a little
lethargic today.
You ever had those lazy days you just
don't want to get out of bed? The
weather's starting to change here. It's
getting cooler. I love it.
So,
we are looking at
everything is
copacetic.
I should be seeing a 15-minute time
frame of the
Bitcoin and we're we're all in long.
Bitcoin is uh
ready to moon today.
And oops, I'm sorry. I'm looking at the
the Nasdaq.
I don't do anything with crypto.
But uh
just want to make sure you're paying
attention.
All right, so we had
I got one little artifact left. Let me
get that off of there.
I like to keep those
previous day's stuff off my chart.
They're on my notepad, but they're not
supposed to be on the chart. They're
supposed to be on your chart if you need
them.
So, we're just ranging between the
August 13th, 2024 daily fair value gap
high
shown here. If you watch the
presentation on my YouTube
yesterday that was uh
I recorded
not my I'm sorry, on my son's
YouTube channel, which I linked on my
community post.
Uh I got a lot of questions obviously
asking, you know,
where's where's Caleb in it? Caleb's
learning
how to be able to talk with me about
what it is I'm showing him.
If I talk about everything I'm
annotating on the chart
and I say, "Do you see that? Do you
understand that?" and him just simply
doing caveman grunts like, "Mhm." or
yes, sir.
That's not really that engaging. So, I
want to get through the content to get
him up to speed.
Not as fast, but as
reasonable
in terms of time. So, like I said, he he
is not a rocket scientist when it comes
to
trading. He's got to learn the same
thing you do. And the language and and
whatnot. So, I'm exposing him to seeing
the
over and over repeating phenomenon and
how to also journal. So, that's what his
channel will be like for the first
couple weeks.
But, he'll be in there
journaling with me.
But, uh
cuz a lot of folks are going to say, you
know, "Why is ICT just talking? It's
supposed to be his son's channel." It
is.
And he's being trained by me. So, you're
getting the lectures as it would be if
it was just him and I sitting next to
each other.
So, anyway, we're ranging between August
13th's daily fair value gap high
and its consequent encouragement.
Midpoint in here is the low of that.
And we are now
two almost two and a half minutes into
the opening.
We have a very large
discount gap.
So, we'll look at that when we're
trading hours.
See that here.
So they're rather large
opening range gap.
Okay.
And
we go back down to electronic trading
hours now.
And the daily chart.
That is
the fair value gap here.
I showed this on the
mark up yesterday
on Caleb's channel. If you don't know
what his channel is, there's a couple
people out there trying to pretend to be
him.
Uh obviously, it's I think he's got like
24,000 followers now
on his channel.
And there's only two videos, and I'm the
one talking on them. But I always will
link his most recent
video
on my community post on my YouTube
channel.
So, the fair value gap here on the 13th
of August,
that's what's being highlighted with
this candlestick's low as its high, this
candlestick's high as its low, and
midpoint
right there for that fair value gap.
This is a buy side imbalance sell side
inefficiency.
And then back down into a 15-minute time
frame.
I have Tuesday's
September 3rd daily low noted.
So we're working around that as well.
For your notes, Caleb, you need to be
making sure that you are aware that
after very large ranges, whether they're
the up days or down days,
whenever there is a
large range day previous to the new new
starting like right now. We're looking
at a new day trading the AM session.
It's better for you to sit on your hands
and not do anything initially until you
get more experience. Obviously, you can
trade them after you understand a little
bit better what it is you're trying to
do. But initially, I tell my students
not to try to trade the morning session
after a large range day because it could
be fickle.
Fickle is where the market is basically
doing things like this, back and forth,
back and forth. And it's not all that
engaging. It can be,
but it's typically not the case.
And while you're learning, you don't
want to discover that you don't have as
much experience as you thought you did
uh
trying to trade on after a large range
day. It's better to trade in the
afternoon session.
And you're probably thinking, "Well, why
aren't you live streaming in the
afternoon session?"
Because I have a life.
All right, so we are looking at
15-minute time frame.
We have a little bit of an inefficiency
right up in here and it goes to the
opening range mid
point or that consequent encroachment.
So, that level right there. Okay? That
line.
So, we can drop into a five real quick.
I would have liked to see that get
cleaned up a little bit before it did
this, but that's okay.
Kind of mid mid gap is here.
First presentation is here.
So, that's your first fair value gap.
Right there.
And I'm only going to hang out with you
guys until around
10:30 today, okay? So,
not too much candy.
I'm going to take that
midline off.
It's a little distracting for me. You
can always keep it on yours.
And we have the end dog for today up at
18,993
and 3/4, 18,999
and 3/4 respectively here.
So, I'd like to see a trade to mid gap
and then maybe explore a return back in
here.
If it leaves the upper portion above end
of open
between here and here
and starts to roll over and we take out
the low formed a new opening range, uh
we might get down into
the August 13th
fair value gap low at level down here.
So, I'm just keeping it relaxed this
morning, not trying to be too hard
pressed on
what I want to see.
In other words, I'm not trying to push a
button in front of you and try to push
a narrative right now. I'm just
exploring
both sides of it today. We've taken buy
side here initially.
Traded down into the
low of the fair value gap here. You can
see there's a volume imbalance
there, but that naturally gets worked
out because of the the candlesticks high
right there.
Poppy ICT.
All right, so because we've taken by
side here
Now we have a little bit of
sell sides layered up in here nice and
concise right there. So we could see it
wick down below that.
Maybe attack the uh
consequent encroachment again on that
August 13th
daily fair value gap.
Back inside of the
first presentation of the fair value
gap.
Opening range
defined by 9:30
here to 10:00.
Okay, anything other than that is just
someone
telling you a gimmick.
That's This is what the algorithm refers
to. You'll see it if you study it.
You'll see it's always
implementing the information you're
getting in that first 30 minutes.
Sometimes the trade sets up, sometimes
the trade is after this.
But you're affording yourself the
opportunity to at least study and seek
that first fair value gap.
On trending days, you only get one
chance with these and it just keeps on
ripping going one way or the other.
Uh any day that's not a non-
trending day, you'll you'll get several
instances where it wants to come back to
it, offer a trade, or a target.
Okay, now here. See what it's done here?
The body is outside that fair value gap
right there.
And that is classic. This is the reason
why I tell you sit still, Caleb. Don't
do anything or hold yourself to a high
expectation on morning sessions after a
large range day. Remember we had a
really big candle stick on the daily
chart yesterday?
So
the The sessions can have a little bit
of
distortion where the setups may not be
as crisp. They may not be as clean. They
may not be as obvious to you because
your experience level is not sufficient
enough and that's the reason why I teach
this way.
It's not that you can't find setups.
It's not that I can't find a setup. It
just means that
you know, while you're learning, it's
important to try to, you know,
give yourself flexibility.
Don't demand so much, uh
on a day after a large range day.
It could create another continuation of
a large range day the next day, but
in my experience, it's a little bit
cleaner in the afternoon
because it's like, "Oh, well, we've done
enough damage for people
to want to
participate." In other words, everybody
seen it was a down day yesterday. So,
the logical
um
perspective for the people that are
always coming to the market late is
they'll want to go short right at the
open.
And if they do that, it generally is
like engineering liquidity to be ran on
for for buy side.
Not always, but generally that's kind of
like the
MO.
The point in saying that is usually the
bodies will stay inside the fair value
gap, which is what I'd like to see.
Um because it's the day after a large
range day,
it can be a little bit fuzzy, color
outside the lines a little bit more, and
it could cause confusion. It could cause
doubt. It can make you second guess, or
it may cause you to have no real
convictions to buy or sell. So, it's
just it's better for you in the
beginning, Caleb, to just sit still and
just observe. Now, we're back to
Tuesday's daily low again in here.
Again,
mid mid gap is here.
70% time. 70% of time
between 9:30 and 10:00 that level is
usually traded to.
You want to screenshot that?
Okay, so you want to see how
in your notes you want to log this event
where it traded back to mid gap.
So there's the 70% strike rate of
the mid gap getting traded to.
First presentation fair value gap and
the key takeaway is note how
distorted this one is. Okay, this is
classic
after a large range day. Now if it
wasn't a large range day yesterday
again now we're looking for end dog
up here.
If it weren't a large range day
yesterday
this
tends to be more uni
uniform
and it stays in respect. Now the wicks
can come outside of that
fair value gap
but the bodies tend to be more
respective to
the range defining the the low and the
high. In this case, you know, if we're
looking for a gap to come back up into
touch the midpoint which is always the
case when we're going into that if
there's a large range gap
that gap's lower like we have here.
Where we opened up lower than where we
settled yesterday
at settlement. We have a discount gap
that means it's more likely to trade up
seeking some measure of buy side.
And then
if you have the fair value gap here form
After a large range day,
it can act a little muddy like this,
okay? And this is not something that
indicates that they're changing the
algorithm. It doesn't mean that they're
out there doing traps on SMC. It That is
silly.
That's That's people talking about
things they don't understand cuz they're
trying to get you to buy their course.
Okay? Does it look like I'm getting
trapped? Looks like I'm smashing
everything, doesn't it? Looks like
precision
brain surgery in here, right? So,
so there's no traps in SMC. There's no
There's no none of that stuff.
I'm proving it every single day. Uh my
students are growing in their
understanding. I love the fact that the
uh
the comment section's like
really positive, which is encouragement
to me, because usually when I'm talking
to Caleb, it's like
uh-huh. And he he struggles with some of
the things because it's you know, it's
very boring. It's very boring and dry.
And
he's never been like a strong academic
child. I can say that about my son cuz I
love him and and it's the truth. So, he
he's not looking at this stuff and
saying, "This is really easy, Dad." But
he can see fair value gaps.
So, that's the reason why I elected to
use this because I talked about other
things in the past. And it's just like
deer in headlights. So, I'm focusing on
the fair value gap, not because the fair
value gap is the best PD array I have,
cuz it isn't.
Uh the best ones you'll never learn, but
the fair value gap is the one that's
obvious. It's obvious. You can see it.
They think They can't hide it,
obviously. Uh and then when you add to
elements to it like, you know, the first
30 minutes, which is the real opening
range, the algorithm will see that first
inefficiency.
Right here.
And while it does color outside the
lines a little bit,
for the students that have been with me
longer than just today or yesterday or
just in the 2024 mentorship, um
invariably you'll hear people say, "Oh,
he's he's form fitting. he's
making it fit for this individual
circumstance." But, they have always
hurt me, and you can hear it in the core
content in the 2016-2017 mentorship,
where I talk about trading after large
range days, you want to sit still in the
morning session. The high probability
setups will be in the afternoon.
And if you are more inclined because of
your experience level affords you to do
it, you can trade the morning session,
obviously. But, you have to be more
versed on what it is that's going to
most likely happen for you that goes you
takes you into tilt.
In other words, where where you're going
to go and start going back and forth,
buying and selling, buying and selling.
And that's usually what I have seen with
students that try to trade even with my
concepts. If they're too premature
with their understanding and they just I
think they just get out there and try to
trade because they want to do something.
I'd like to see make an attempt to get
through here and get up to end up.
They end up hurting themselves, not
financially because they're Well, some
of them have because
they trade with real money before they
know what they're doing, and they over
leverage, and they over
trade. They try to do too much. So, by
having rules like this and having
protocols, it helps at least in my
opinion. It's the best thing I can do as
an educator is to remind you that there
are risks.
And if you don't follow and appreciate
those risks, just because my concepts
look really, really good in my hands and
my other students that are proving that
they're being profitable with them,
doesn't mean out the gate you're going
to be able to do that without any
adversities. So, it's why it's important
for the first 6 months to a year, you
have to have very, very low expectations
on yourself. And that way, every time
you get a milestone in your development,
it needs to be celebrated. It needs to
be celebrated. And not online with
social media, but in your journal and
someone you can confide in.
Okay? Um
It's better than It's better that it's
not your spouse or your significant
other because
um money usually is a problem for
relationships and they're not going to
see it the same way you are.
And these small little micro advances in
your understanding, they're huge.
They're huge in the beginning and you
really want to encapsulate that in your
journal.
But someone that may be a fellow
student, maybe online if you um
are in different circles where they're
using the content, whatever.
Um it's encouragement to see like-minded
individuals you know, bounce ideas off
of one another, but not for the sake of
competition cuz that's that's the worst
thing you can do is have a competitive
uh
mindset while you're learning.
So, what I'm watching here
is this buy side imbalance sell side
inefficiency.
And I'm looking at where we are in
relationship to the middle of that.
I got all my extensions on here. Let me
get that one off. Here's the opportunity
for you to screenshot my secret
Fibonacci settings.
Don't tell anybody these settings. If
you tell them these settings, they're
going to change the algo and then I'm
out of business.
Can't can't have that, okay?
So, here is consequent encroachment.
It's the middle of
the range defined by this candle's low
and that candlestick's high.
Okay?
So,
if it's bullish, if it wants to get up
to the end dog, it's better if it
doesn't come back and touch the midpoint
down here.
How many curse words have I said today?
Told you.
I told you it's just a character.
Get people talking.
Master of marketing.
ICT
What we going to do with you?
Love me.
I know you
All right, so
again,
post large range days. That means you're
defining that on the basis of a daily
chart.
Obviously, your daily chart for NQ
is most likely going to show a very
large down closed candle for yesterday
as it should.
Because it was a large range day,
two things we have to understand. It
closed on a low,
so it's bearish.
And then
the public is going to want to go in the
very next day. You want to screenshot
that, by the way.
Caleb, when you're uh
when you're watching the charts like
this,
you're going to hold down
function and tap the shift key for your
your laptop, and that way you'll you'll
be able to capture it.
TradingView has a little uh function in
the upper right-hand corner.
It has like a little camera.
Uh I don't really like that one
uh because it kind of like squishes the
chart down. And I I like to have my
charts, as you as you can see when I'm
doing the markups, I like to have as
much of the real estate
on the on the chart that's afforded to
me cuz I want to have the the candles
large
and broad enough where you can really
appreciate the bodies and and pick out
where the opens and closes are.
Like like that's a real nice perspective
like that.
Okay? So,
when you're in the
the the process of trading
or like most of you right now are trying
to learn how to do this,
you don't want to be in here trying to
do things like um
I got to be in here pushing the button
or demo trading cuz it you know, I have
to see come some kind of results.
When you journal
and you're taking pictures and
screenshots of things that are
repeating, especially from things like
when I'm doing in the live streams like
this,
it gives you context.
Okay, imagine if you didn't have the
understanding of my new day opening gap.
Imagine if you didn't have the
understanding of the opening range.
Which is the 30 minutes after opening
bell to 10:00.
Imagine if you didn't have the rule I
gave you that 70% of the time the
algorithm will reprice to half of the
gap
between 9:30 and 10:00.
And imagine that you didn't get taught
not just this lecture but all throughout
the
the discussion about how
retail
you know, street money versus a smart
money's perspective.
When there's an arm wrestling match
between those two categories of traders
or mindsets, street money's going to
fall victim every single time.
Every single time they're going to fall
victim to it and it's because they're
trying they're chasing impulsive natures
and tendencies. Meaning that yesterday
they saw a big down day.
And while I cannot trade
with my students, you know, expecting me
to, you know, walk the walk as I as I
talk it,
when I do the
lectures that say after holiday, you
want to sit still in the morning
session.
Well, ICT, it sounds like you never take
a trade. Well, clearly you can see I can
execute. Just look at the examples I'm
showing you.
That's not to, you know, just say that
you can't trade in the morning session
after holiday. I'm taking a great deal
of caution
because I respect the role that you're
holding me to as an educator, as a
teacher, as a mentor.
A teach- a teacher or a mentor that's
worth his weight or her weight in
in
in salt,
I'm I'm trying to give you all the
advantages
and remove all the the problem things
that I endured painfully. So, I lost
fortunes learning how to do this. Before
I got good,
I lost fortunes, more money than
probably most of you will ever make in
your lifetime. You would have quit.
Nobody would have went through what I
was willing to go through.
But,
because I teach this way, it affords you
the luxuries of comfort and safety from
the sidelines, and you can watch,
observe, do these rules work in a manner
that would have protected me if I
wouldn't have listened to them.
Sometimes, there's been instances where
I'll say,
"Remember, it's a holiday, so
we're going to sit still on the
following day. Don't trade You know,
don't trade the morning session."
Obviously, the the continuation of that
thought process is
you can always trade the afternoon
session.
And you saw me do that yesterday. And I
teach and I have taught the time aspects
of the PM session. It begins at 1:30
p.m. Eastern Time. That means you can
start looking for a setup then.
And then you have the understanding of
the 2:00 macro, which is 1:50 to 2:10.
Then you can see how the market wants to
continue with its kind of like
atmosphere of going lower yesterday. And
while I don't have
the
the the opportunity to say, "Look at me,
I I'm I'm short from
the open yesterday."
Could I have done it inside the daily
imbalance where it went back and hit
consequent encroachment? That's where my
entry would have been. And if you don't
know what I'm talking about, watch the
video I put on my son's YouTube channel.
That would have been my entry for the
morning session.
And then holding onto it and I probably
would have had probably two or three
contracts rolling into the 1:30 time
period. And then I have to weigh out
whether I want to do anything else in
addition to that.
That's how I would have handled it. Now,
when I talk like that,
folks that don't know me, they don't
know what I'm teaching, they don't see
the ability that I can show my
executions, and my the logic that I I
call for specific levels,
and when the date and the time and the
setup is there, then I'll engage it. And
then you get to see, you know, precision
elements again, like yesterday's trade.
But, if you're not
versed
or used to seeing the things that I do
very consistently, very precise,
it just seems like, well, he just said
he would have done something, but you
didn't do it, bro.
And
I know there's new students, there's new
people coming in here all the time, and
you're really selling yourself short if
you hold that mindset. And some of my
best students were ones that actually
doubted me.
The ones that had uh, you know, real
stiff criticisms of me.
And because they were much more
convicted in their
stance against what it is I teach, and
there is no algorithm, it's, you know,
it's buying and selling pressure. Um,
there's no proof of execution, there's
no this, there's no that.
And then finally, when they went through
the process of this saying, I'm going to
go in and I'm going to see if it can be
proven wrong. I'm going to prove him
wrong.
That's the That's the trap. That's the
smart money concept
I'm causing people to doubt enough
to come into it and try to debunk it.
And when they go through the process
correctly, they become converted, and
they can't see the market any other way.
And they have a better perspective on
reading price action, which is my
intended purpose here. Like, I'm not
trying to be smarter than everybody
else. I'm not trying to be the most
popular one.
I'm just trying to teach you the stuff
that works, cuz I know if you do it the
right way, it stands a better chance
that you'll find success doing it.
But,
here we've had
a couple things happen. We have had the
market open
at 9:30. We had small little drop down.
And then rallied up, created the first
fair value gap here shaded in white.
Mid-gap,
we saw it trade to
this level right here.
And 70% of the time
you're going to see that that is when
we're opening the lower like we did here
from yesterday's settlement price. Let
me go one more time back to
regular trading hours. So, here's
previous settlement price here.
It's the close.
And this is the opening price down here.
Since this is a small little up close
candle here,
it's the open as the first traded price
at 9:30.
And where we settled or where we stopped
trading
when you're using regular trading hours
on your chart down here.
Uh I'm not an affiliate with
TradingView.
Uh I'm not trying to get you to buy or
or purchase anything from them.
But I don't know what plan that
TradingView offers that allows you to I
don't I Like I said, I don't even I buy
the biggest
program. I don't get it for free. I pay
for it. Uh I've paid several years worth
of it. So, um I I I don't have any kind
of direct connection with them. This is
the platform that my community said I
should use when we left MT4 or MT5. I
never wanted to use it. But uh
Regular trading hours is toggled here.
And for you to get the opening range
gap,
you're going to go back to the closing
price on the previous day. And we opened
down here. So, this is a discount
opening range gap. That means we opened
lower than the previous settlement
price.
If we were to gap open higher than that
price, that means we are a premium
opening range gap.
And
you want to know the midpoint, which is
this here,
that middle line.
That defines where 70% of the time
the market will trade back up into it.
Now, yesterday,
if you can give me a moment, I'll see if
I can
take us back to that.
Here's the volume advance.
On the daily chart, and here's the
opening range
yesterday.
Same premise.
Previous day's settlement, we opened
down here, and that little tiny wick
right there was all that it mustered
to get into the opening range gap.
So, it never even went back to halfway.
Didn't even go up to 1
quarter of the opening range.
And just fell out of bed. So,
that is uh
the difference
between it doing what 70% of the time
it's more likely to do.
And because it's a gap opening lower,
that means you have a 70% chance
of seeing trade back into the middle of
the gap, meaning it's going to go up
initially.
We're not trying to predict as a
student, you know, Caleb, you're not
trying to determine a full gap closure.
But if there's a new day opening gap or
new week opening gap inside of the
opening range gap that's above the
midpoint of the gap that's we're
indicating here,
that means we're opening lower
than where we settled. That means the
gap high is here, and the midpoint is
here. So, you have a very strong 70% of
the time.
If you start If you start tracking this
and doing it every single day,
journaling it like this, you're going to
see where I get the 70% from. I'm going
back to 1987.
1987 using
pre-electronic trading,
using Globex numbers, okay? So, look at
that.
And look at that move right there.
After hitting the end dog. Isn't that
beautiful?
So, we have uh news came at 10:00.
That's what we're seeing through their
knee-jerk reaction to.
And back then it's that I'm going to
take the opening range parameters off
here.
I don't need them anymore.
And back into regular trading hours and
we should be offsetting that sell side
that's what we were looking at earlier.
All that right there targeted after
hitting new day opening gap. So again,
you want to take a screenshot of that
and label that with sell side.
Okay, and now what we want to see is
does it want to come back up work the
lower end of that blue shaded area. That
blue shaded area is your opening range
gap.
And then we have the August 13th daily
fair value gap low.
And neat.
Price going up to some random level
some invisible
fortress that says
not fortress but barriers that says
you're not going to pass.
You can't go any higher bro. Got to go
down.
Goes right to quickly now
all of the sell side. So anyone that's
been long
went long in here or went long here and
didn't take anything off at the new day
opening gap.
Look how fast they'll come for you.
See that? And they use
these high impact or medium impact news
events on the economic calendar to to
provide them a smoke screen.
So it looks like selling pressure in an
absence of what? Buyers. And then the
market drops down to some
level that obviously has a big pool of
interest for we're back at the Tuesday's
daily
daily low here.
The uh
the opposing liquidity
below these lows here after running up.
Anyone that wants to sell short
here right from the beginning of the day
you they
would obviously use these levels here
for stops. They ran them initially and
then you had your first fair value gap
formed.
We colored outside the lines a little
bit but that's okay.
That that's part of what you're watching
today, Caleb. Otherwise, I wouldn't have
done anything in the morning session
live with anyone. But you want to see
these characteristics. You want to see
this type of uh formation.
Then rallied up into uh
mid-gap.
So the strike rate is 70% of the time
hitting it between 9:30 and 10:00, still
stands.
And then up to end of day.
So
from here to here, that's that right
there is a model. That that will hit, it
will stick, it will serve so well and it
doesn't need to be a new day opening
gap. It could be a new week opening gap.
It doesn't have to be both levels,
either. It could be just the low.
And it's the first one you're going to
trade to. That's a low-hanging fruit
perspective. That's what I want you to
focus on, Caleb. Not the best of the
best.
I'm watching these relative equal highs
here and full gap closure.
We have a little bit of inefficiency in
here.
And then we have Tuesday's daily low.
So I'm watching to see if they want to
drop it back down in there.
Tickle this line again one more time.
Work the halfway point of
this buy-side imbalance, sell-side
inefficiency and then drive
for the individuals here.
And maybe do a full gap closure.
I don't believe that I have it set
anymore for the live streams to do the
thumbs up or thumbs down.
Obviously,
I get like a 98% plus
like rating on the
YouTube
analytics page.
But I can still see them. You probably
probably can't see them now. But uh
if you're learning today when you watch
things like this and it's
it's comforting if it gives you
confidence if it encourages you seeing
the logic of these things panning out
giving your giving some framework with
if
you're watching price without these
types of reference points.
I often make, you know, snide remarks
about other forms and disciplines of
trading because I want to encourage
engagement for you to think critically
about what it is you're trying to learn.
Because
if these types of things repeat, doesn't
it at least give an advantage
over you not using it? Because it gives
you context. It gives you some kind of
framework to view price through and
around. Otherwise, I couldn't trust that
the market's going to go up or down or
stop here and turn around. Like all the
questions that all of you have. You say,
"How do you How did you trust taking
that trade right there? Why didn't you
think it was going to go higher? Or why
didn't you think it was going to go
lower?"
Uh it's because I've spent
32 years doing this stuff. And I know
what works and I know
the things that I did as a new startup
in 1992. Like I was doing silly stuff.
Like I was looking at trend lines and
trying to get the right trend line and I
had hundreds of difference of of forms
of
you know, trend line fans. I used the
Gann stuff try to figure out and
decipher the right trend line with that
thing.
And once in a while I would get
something in hindsight that looked like,
"Wow, I I figured it out." And then I'd
go out and I'd lose money with it.
You know, it's it's demoralizing. And
then when you
see things
through a lens of
liquidity inefficiency and a
manipulation somewhere to sprinkle
inside all that stuff. It'll It allows
you to see things a little bit
differently.
And that different perspective is a
minority perspective that absolutely
kills it in this industry. You want to
be a minority. You want to be the
cheetah, the lion
that's sitting on the outside or
outskirts of that watering hole.
Because every day everybody's coming to
get a drink at the opening bell at 9:30.
Everyone's coming here.
And then
you're looking for the opportunity to
eat
because everybody else is thirsty.
You're hungry. You're trying to get your
pound of flesh.
If you don't have some measure of
defining what it is that says
I have a high chance of getting
something to eat today and not getting
hurt.
You ever watch those nature shows? And
those those lions and those cheetahs It
It isn't easy for them just to go out
there and and chase something down and
eat. Sometimes the things that they're
chasing have horns.
And they could be they could be hurt.
And if they get hurt, that impedes their
ability to eat tomorrow or that day.
So
you have to you have to weigh the
understandings of what you're trying to
do, when you're trying to do it, and
then get the lay of the land. Is it safe
for me to go out there and engage?
Because even though everybody's coming
to the watering hole
you you don't want to be going out there
trying to get hurt just for the sake of
getting something to eat right now.
So hunting and and and stalking setups
there are criteria that my concepts will
provide that define very very high
probability conditions. There are other
times where the setup can be there, but
because of the type of day it is, like
today it's after a large range day, that
means the characteristic is in the
morning session, it can be a little bit
wonky. It can be a little
um
not as clean or crisp in its delivery.
And again, I'm using the fair value gap
and the how the bodies were just outside
of that right there. Anyone else might
look at that and say, "Well, see, this
is this is them trapping traders. The
smart money concepts. This is a trap."
No, it's not.
Like I'm talking to you live over over
top the chart and explain to you that
that is a normal characteristic of a
post holiday or post large range day.
That's what it looks like.
And
I had students that were paying me and
when I would talk about things like that
and not put them in trades, they're
like, "Oh, this isn't this is this is
dumb." And and they would quit. And I'm
thankful that they quit because I don't
want people like that in my learning. I
want them to move on to do something
else. Stay in the money. Stay in street
money perspective.
That's why I'm telling you for the folks
that are worried about, you know, this
stuff, "Oh, it's falling out of favor.
It's not going to work anymore or
they're or targeting us." They're not
targeting anything. Like what you're
saying is when you say stuff like that,
you you don't understand how the markets
both price really.
And you don't understand the entities
that I'm trying to explain to you exist
and they're not on people's YouTube
channel talking about how they were, you
know,
at the institution.
At the institution, we teach, you know,
real trading, quantitative analysis,
qualitative analysis.
And they'll say that intraday volatility
or trading is a scam and anybody tells
you they can do it consistently, run
away from them cuz they're a con artist.
They're a scammer.
Here I am.
Here I am explaining it, okay? And
Goldman boys
are taking notes. Trust me when I tell
you
that's the reality, okay? But they'll
say what they have to say because that
investment firm it it garners, you know,
a lot of attention
and people that have a lot of money
uh they will use that style of
investing.
And I'm not an investor. I don't teach
people to invest other than in investing
in themselves. But trading and timing
the market
uh we have these relative equal highs
here
and the top of that new day opening gap.
That's the uh the liquidity and you take
a screenshot of that right there.
Off of the first presentation of the
fair value gap. So tell me tell me about
it Goldman Sachs. Tell me tell me about
it. Tell me how that's uh
that's not technical science. Cuz you're
right, technical analysis is a joke.
Technical analysis garbage because that
is what retail uses.
Triangles, pennants, moving average
crossovers, VWAP, all that stuff. That's
all retail.
But when you look at things with the
reality of why the market's so priced. I
mean seriously, folks, seriously. Okay?
I'm not on my I'm not on my soapbox. I'm
not on up here grandstanding. I'm not
beating my chest.
I want you to think about what you're
seeing
and how pure it is.
How pure it is. It's not It's not
something that's, you know, muddied up
with indicators and garbage.
So we want to see does it use the new
day opening gap here, sweeping around
both sides of it and then reach for a
full gap closure. That would be uh the
last thing for the morning session for
me before we close the session out. And
if it does that, then I'll just say, you
know, take a screenshot of that and
we'll end this one today and be done
with it. But the uh
the delivering of of seeing what the
market would target
what levels are key.
Now contrast that with anyone that uses
uh anything. Just you fill in the blank,
right? Just fill in the blank with
anything else other than what I'm
teaching.
And that's why it's
like
I'm I'm the type of person
in this industry that is going to be
hated more than they're loved.
The people that don't know what they're
doing and have tried other stuff, when
they come to me and they really do the
due diligence to try to learn how to do
it or they observe, they they simply
just watch and listen to me.
And I tell you what the market's going
to do.
And it behaves that way.
And it's not ambiguous. It's it's very
specific things. And it's based on time
delivery first.
So the the algorithm that may not be
believed by everyone that exists, it
doesn't matter.
I'm not frustrated at nighttime. And it
sounds to you as a new viewer like I'm
defending myself. I'm not defending
myself. I'm reminding the folks that
hold to the idea that there is no
algorithm
that these markets are not rigged
that they
lean on logic that is retail oriented.
And that classification and that
category of trader is the losing class.
So, if you're going to defend
or argue against what is I'm I'm
presenting here,
you're you're stuck cuz now you're
forced to pick what retail logic
What other retail logic is giving you
these types of things right here with
the sound logic that is not ambiguous,
it's very specific. Where's the
liquidity? Where's the specific PD array
like the midpoint of the gap?
The liquidity here, the new day opening
gap, the first fair value gap, the sell
side I told you.
Below these lows over here.
Like it's it's done all of that.
Under the context that we opened lower
after our large range day down. So that
means they're going to punish who? What
classification
of trader
in street money, dumb money
What are street money traders trying to
do? Because they saw yesterday's
trading. What what trading
approach or sentiment will traders have
going into the marketplace that simply
don't know what I'm
he's
and showing you.
They're going to want to do what they
saw yesterday was profitable. That means
they want to be short.
So, they're going to draw into anyone
that's already short here and then drop
down,
load the boat, smart money is buying in
here,
rallying
up to a random new day opening gap
in the upper quadrant of
the opening range gap.
I'm just going to
eyeball here with my
I was supposed to pick up my glasses
yesterday.
And I didn't do it. And I'm really
flirting with stuff that I shouldn't be
doing because my eyes are really not
sharp right now without these new
prescriptions I have.
But
that's another reason why I told you I
don't have to leave here at 10:30 cuz
I'm going to grab something to eat with
my wife and then
go get my glasses, but uh
This guy talks too much. Nobody cares
about your glasses, bro. Trust me when I
tell you nobody cares.
Okay.
So, here's upper quadrant and then it
goes past the upper quadrant just to
fulfill the numbers at the relative
equal highs and the new day opening gap.
So, it went just a little bit above it.
So, I wouldn't rule out another
muddy attempt to get up to a full gap
closure maybe a little bit higher today.
Um
But this is enough for this morning.
This is just a beautiful display of
what it is I teach. You know, it's it's
hard to fight against it when you just
come to me with an open mind. You're not
trying to be a worshiper of me. I I
don't let anybody do that with me. I
don't want anybody calling me a goat,
the king, the boss, you know, whatever.
I'm just the average Joe. That's my
middle name, Joe.
Okay? And God's blessed me with an
ability to be able to see these things.
And I've done my best to communicate the
a a language that affords you, if you
spend the time looking at it,
you'll see what this algorithm is doing
at specific and select times.
And all you need is just one of them.
Just one of them.
You buying
the fair the fair value gap here,
getting to the halfway point of the gap,
that might be your model and you don't
care what it does after that. You know
what? That's maturity and that's early
onset maturity.
Most students
in this industry cannot have that
mindset.
Because they want to have the full
swing. They want to full pull where it
the whole move. You capture the whole
move.
That's unrealistic. It's it's really
unrealistic in the beginning. But you
think that that's progress for you to be
able to get to that real quick. And I'm
telling you for someone that's going
been doing it for a very long time and I
made every error that you're ever going
to make
and probably done them dozens of times
thinking I'm I was going to be the
exception to the rule.
That's not That's not what's going to
happen for you, okay?
I would love for you to be able to say,
"Michael,
it didn't happen like that. I I was the
exception. Here's the proof of it." And
well, that would be wonderful.
But it would be disingenuous of me
and it would be counterproductive
for me to tell you or blow smoke up your
rear end to try to entice you in
believing that you are going to be or
any of my students are going to be that
exception.
So, if it gives you the proper mindset
to avoid having that error,
uh I've done my my job as a mentor. I'm
providing you
an initial mindset that is reasonable,
it's realistic and it's allowing you to
gradually in a measured progress
that you can track with your journal.
You're not tracking your understanding
at a guy uh sent me a message the other
day. He says,
"How do I know I'm progressing? Cuz I
don't feel like I'm progressing."
And then they say I'm I'm losing money
in my
funded account challenges or I'm losing
my funded account if I if I get it,
I end up losing it. How how can I track
my progress? Number one, you don't track
your progress by going out there and
trying to use what I'm teaching ongoing
right now
in a setting where you can potentially
lose.
That that's not how you measure your
progress. That's how you ensure that you
will not progress
efficiently and properly.
Because now you've weighted
the outcome
to a positive or negative and it has a
negative impact larger than the
positive. The positive of you making
money with it right away, you haven't
really learned how to do it. The
positive is is it feels good. And then
when you show everybody on social media,
that's it.
It's it. That that chewing gum's lost
its flavor.
You might as well just spit it out cuz
nobody's going to No one's going to
care. No one cares about my trade that I
took yesterday.
No more. They're they're interested in
what I'm doing today. What's he going to
do today? What's the magic trick he's
going to show today?
And that's how it's going to be for you.
But the negative impact of you going out
there and trying to rush to use what I'm
teaching before you really understand
yourself and how to use this information
correctly,
that impact is going to far out outweigh
the any positive you get by using it if
it makes you a little bit of money. Cuz
think about it, you're not going to make
a million dollars.
You you're not going to do that, you
know, in your first year of trading with
this information. You're not going to do
it.
But some of you think that you're going
to be that person. And I'm telling you
if you try to do those types of things,
the only thing that's going to do is
push your success further away from
where you are right now.
You're literally throwing it so much
further down the road.
And then when you get closer to it, if
you don't change that mindset, you're
going to kick that can further down the
road because you're doing things
backwards and it doesn't feel that way,
but I'm telling you I've I've taught so
many people
since the '90s, okay? I've I've taught a
lot of people.
And
it's always the same thing. The people
that try to rush out there and they try
to use it to make money right away
without learning properly. Logging,
journaling, observing how they feel, if
they felt ecstatic, if they were
euphoric when the price was delivered
like they thought. You have to keep that
in check.
It's good that you're journaling and
you're saying, "I'm happy that this
panned out like I thought it would. And
it was so encouraging to see it." You
don't want to say, "I'm the man. I'm the
goat.
ICT, watch out, baby. I'm coming for
you."
You know, all that kind of stuff that
you would put in your your social media
post or whatever. You don't want to do
that in your journal. Because what that
does is it elevates and it stimulates
your ego.
And your ego, for the men, is going to
be hugely impactful
if you are focusing there. Chances are
you're minimizing or putting blinders on
the things that you're not doing correct
and you're failing to see these
opportunities to improve on.
So,
when I sit with you live like this,
Caleb, and I'm pointing to certain
things like this,
I'm allowing you to key up on the setups
that make sense to you.
And I'm going to review them real quick
and then I'm going to close it cuz it's
9 more minutes and I'm done.
So, initially, you know, we were looking
for the lower lower gap opening lower,
which you can see that happening when we
were at 9:15. Chances are, you know,
with the over 100 handles or so below
previous day's settlement,
chances are we're going to open up
lower.
And
you know that there's a 70% chance that
we're going to go back to mid-gap. But
yesterday was proof that it's not 100%,
right? 70% is not 100%.
But
there's nothing in that chart yesterday
that would have,
you know, brought into the mix as a buy.
It just kept just eroding lower lower
lower lower lower.
Okay? Well, you wouldn't have got any
anything long on it anyway.
So, you wouldn't have lost money. You
just missed an opportunity. And I was
just going through all of my my students
that use my concepts and and that do
live stream,
um they all had generally the same
thing. It was just like, "Wow, this
thing's just keeps melting." And all the
other YouTubers were like, "Wow, man,
this is just just just going lower,
lower, lower." And you can see that that
because they're live streaming,
okay? And if if this is one of my
students listening to me, listen, okay?
I'm not trying to be critical. I want
you to observe this because this will
make you better.
You're almost apologizing to your
audience
because you don't have something to get
into a trade because it's moved so much.
That is the problem with live streaming
because you feel like you have to
perform.
I don't have to perform.
I want to take a setup if it's there and
it makes money. If it doesn't make
money, I'm not taking it. If I know I'm
going to put that trade on and I'm going
to have anxiety about whether or not
it's going to be in the high probability
uh conditions. If it doesn't fit the
criteria for high probability, if I can
only frame it
in one way and that's the way I'm in it
and I'm on side, I'm not going to have
any anxiety about it. I'm not going to
second guess it. I'm going to sit here
and wait for my partials and wait for my
terminus to be hit. Or
any position uh that's open that I have
a a trail stop to, I accept the fact
that I'm getting stopped out there in
profit.
You see what that that mindset has done?
It it completely removes the outside
influence of other people telling me
when and how I should trade. And that's
what my students are wrestling with when
there's days where it just starts moving
right away and they don't have an
opportunity to get in
because they haven't learned everything
like I was covering yesterday in uh
Caleb's channel. There's things that you
could have used to get in.
Looking at it in hindsight, you can see
it clearly now.
But most of you were so shell-shocked
that you couldn't do anything yesterday
morning.
You completely threw out the the baby
with the bathwater and didn't even worry
about the afternoon session.
And then here I am I'm rolling up in
there at 1:30 like I teach.
Go in there. Okay, now I'm going to look
for what I'm looking for.
Where everybody else is like that's it.
That's just like the the guy that
you know, he cruises through the casino.
He's only sitting down in front of those
slot machines until he sees somebody
that's been there for a long time and
they ain't had a payout. And I'm waiting
for that person to get up off the chair.
I'm going to slide on in with my 25
bucks and plink plink plink and then I
get the jackpot because the ratio is
it's time for it to pay out.
So, everybody
that couldn't do anything yesterday
morning
because this kept going lower
and lower and lower
thinking, "Oh man, it's not giving a
setup. Oh, they're changing the
algorithm."
No, they're not. That's typical. Now,
it's an extremely large example of that
where it's a big range day down, but
that's typical of a
post holiday day where you don't know
what they're going to do.
And it because everybody couldn't trade
the day before and it's usually a day
where trading would have taken place on
a Monday.
So, what's happened?
People are chomping at the bit. They're
literally biting their fingernails
looking I can't wait to start trading. I
can't wait till it's time. Okay, you're
anxious.
And
boom, the market comes out and just
slowly roads lower and lower and lower
and lower and lower.
And all your technical stuff isn't
talking to you
because it's being manipulated.
They just keep dropping the price. Keep
dropping the price. Doesn't matter how
many people come in and want to buy.
It's not it's not going to go up
because it's designed to go down.
And it's staying in that sell model.
Just keeps digging in and keeps digging
in and digging in digging in. Okay,
I'm going to wait. I'm going to wait
until the afternoon. At 1:30, I'm going
to see my setup form. I told you I know
my setups are coming. My setup will be
there this afternoon. My setup will be
there in the last hour of trading today.
It'll be there on Friday. It'll be there
next week every single day. I know my
setups are going to be there. But
contrast that
with everything else out there. You're
going to have to wait for your indicator
to flash some kind of confirmation thing
that's it's okay to buy now or okay to
sell. Oh, the Vwap, you know, the Vwap
is going to act like moving average
resistance. See how the price doesn't
get above that? That's nonsense. It's
literally nonsense. You might as well
just put any old moving average on there
and call the same thing.
But that's not what's making the market
go up and down.
It's not. That's absolutely not what's
happening. So,
look at what we have here in price
action.
We saw the fair value gap here
to mid-gap. That's one setup. That could
be your model. You could go fair value
gap,
partial mid-gap,
terminus,
new day opening gap low.
Others that are contrarian can see this
and say, "Okay, well, I like this setup
here and I want to see a
opportunity where I can go short and I
can short an inversion fair value gap."
That's this one in here.
Extend that out over here. You can see
the body respecting that.
Go short and then target that sell-side
outlined.
I promise you I have students that did
that trade.
I know I have students that took this
one here
to the 70% and I don't know what they
did up here, but I'm certain that they
probably saw the end of end all because
it was in my chart live stream.
They're peeking at my chart while
they're live streaming, but they're
trying to keep focus cuz they don't want
me to influence or entice them away from
what they're looking for and that's
exactly how they should behave.
And then this one here where we take the
fair value gap, its first presentation
of it between 9:30 1.
It right here, went through it. Oh, see
that fair value gap ICT talks about?
That's what everybody on Twitter that
doesn't know what they're talking about.
Where where they were leaving posts of
that and and trying to troll me. And I'm
laughing at them. Literally laughing at
them. Knowing that this is going to
become a reclaimed
fair value gap again.
And then what will happen?
I drew it out. It came down and hit it.
It rallied one more time for the
relative equal highs and laid a
candlestick body over top
of the new daily gap.
See that?
Now, what is it doing?
The chop is real, right Patrick? The
chop is real.
Every setup
every potential setup for you as a ICT
trader this morning
outlined.
Everything here flies in the face of
everything algorithmic.
That's
not algorithmic, but uh retail. But it's
algorithmically delivered here based on
time and price.
So, my question to you in closing is
when you see these things described in
real time,
doesn't it feel like you're not supposed
to know it?
Doesn't it feel like that? Doesn't it
feel like that they somehow
this is like a cheat code?
Like this is this is this is really
scary to see how precise these things
can behave. Cuz isn't this supposed to
be the largest financial casino in the
world?
I I thought everything was buying and
selling pressure completely random and
nobody can know
with intraday charts
what price is going to do cuz nobody can
time the market, right?
Nobody can time the market. No one can
time the market with intraday charts
because intraday charts are noise. I'm
telling you. I promise you. I promise
you. Run away from them. If they tell
you that they can time the market and
they can do it consistently, run away
from them cuz they're con artists and I
mean it. That's coming out of the mouth
of a Goldman Sachs alumni. And you can
still find that video on YouTube. And I
have screenshot that, recorded it, and
allowed my students to do it, too. And
we turned it into a meme because
everybody
understands that that's coming from a
perspective that they work in an
environment that
caters to longer-term investment ideas.
And that right there affords them a
whole lot of low probability.
They can be wrong a lot when it's higher
time frame because they're not worrying
about the micro fluctuations in here.
Which one has the greater skill set?
Clearly, this. This is brain surgery
compared to romper room playground.
Dodgeball. That's the equivalent of
higher time frame long-term investment.
You could literally throw a dart at the
stock tables, you know, and as long as
you hold on to it long enough, you know,
you're going to have it where uh I mean,
money.
And that's the math behind what they
tell you. Oh, the stock market averages
12% a year. 12% a year?
I'm going to put my money, tie it up
with people that don't even They're
telling you that they don't know what
they're talking about. These individuals
are coming out there telling you
unequivocally that they have no idea how
to trade.
But they use value and long-term
trends.
And fundamentals that says it should go
up. So, if we buy it and hold onto it
and just weather the storm. Here's the
upper portion of that opening range gap.
Truth be told, that's what I'm I'm just
hanging for that.
They Take a screenshot OF THAT. BAM!
GOLDMAN BOYS. How about that? You can't
time the market. You don't have no idea
what you're talking about ICT.
You have no idea. Don't listen to this
ICT guy. Whatever you do, don't listen
to this guy. Avoid ICT at all costs.
If you want to stay in the dumb money
category, I promise you, if you follow
that advice,
you're going to get the results you're
looking for. I promise you. You're
looking to lose. You're looking to never
make it.
Because
the folks out there that tell you that
you can't time the market, that's them
saying that they don't know how to do
it.
That's them saying, "We are not going to
We're not going to acknowledge the proof
that this guy ICT's proven on a live
stream in front of everybody."
with a 4-second latency. That means for
whatever I say and point to, 4 seconds
later you're getting it.
You're seeing it. And the folks that
have live data,
they already see it coming, too.
They They can anticipate it.
So, now, my question to you is, look at
this.
Is the chop still real?
No. But, ICT's concepts are real.
Real precise.
Real good. Tasty.
Tasty. Delicious, isn't it? It is so
good. Oh, it's so good, isn't it? Now,
imagine you've walked through life 30
years.
Well, that's not It's not entirely true.
About 27 and 1/2 years, 28 years.
That is
what I've been carrying.
And I'm when I I've I've had all these
different personas online. I've had I've
been so many personas online over the
years.
And listen to people come up and try to
promote this and promote that. And I'm
thinking to myself, this is ridiculous.
This is ridiculous.
And I am the one out here proving things
that no one else can replicate in any
other form of
trading knowledge, okay?
Oh, yeah, he talks about this and talks
about stop hunts. Oh, man.
It's not just a stop hunt.
It's the whole panoramic view and the
timing aspects.
Where a stop loss isn't going to get
hit.
Where the market's going to behave a
certain way and then run for the
liquidity. Everybody understands there's
buy stops above old highs and below old
lows there's sell stops. Everybody
understands that.
I didn't fully understand it before I
started trading with real money in 1992.
Admittedly, I had no idea what I was
doing. I should have never put money
into an account.
But,
once you understand
because I encourage folks, it's better
for people to go out there and don't
believe me right away. Go do other
people's stuff.
Because once you wreck yourself doing
that
and you come here,
you're going to swear up and down that I
should have been the only person in Jack
Schwager's book Market Wizards. Okay?
Because everything else literally is
nonsense. Now, I'm not saying those
people in those books aren't worthy of
listening to because I I looked at Ed
Seykota. I I I listened to
uh
Linda Raschke. I I I
I think that they had a huge impact on
me.
Marcus in the first book. Yeah. I That
was one of the persons that I was like,
"Wow, you know, I resonate with him
first."
And then
Ed. I'm like, "Wow, you know, I I can
I can I can see how that you know, that
that that really resonates with me." His
whole
uh business about the uh
the Jade Master. You know, that was my
first
you time hearing about that. And it it
resonated with me because I'm like a
David Carradine Kung Fu the series, you
know, 1970s. I'm like I'm a 70s boy, you
know, I was born 1970, too. And
I grew up watching David Carradine and I
was into this martial arts thing and it
just seemed like
that Jade Master
story that he uh
he used is like, you know, that that
really resonates with me. I want to be
that. I want to find a Jade Master. I
want to find that. And you know what? I
didn't find one.
So, I had to become him.
So, that's who I am now. I'm Jade
Master. Okay?
That's not Jade. So, that's why I tell
everybody that it's
good for you to have failed doing other
things because you're going to really
see what you didn't know when you come
to me.
As a new student,
I think
if I'm being 100% honest, that's the
purest way of doing it. But why don't I
say that's the best way? Because
you're going to hear stories. You're
going to You're going to see things said
about me from people that don't watch
what I'm doing in front of you live.
They haven't spent years with me doing
this thing live in front of paid
students that they would have came out
and said, "Hey,
this guy can't do this. Look, he did it
all wrong today. Here's proof, proof,
proof, proof, proof." Never happened.
You're seeing what my private mentorship
has saw for years
beforehand over live price action every
single day.
I have never seen anyone ever have the
consistency and accuracy that my
community has watched me do and perform
for years.
And I've done it
where it's
meant to en- encourage you and inspire
you.
But if you don't have
a strong conviction to filter out all
the outside noise cuz social media has a
really big impact on people.
If you're not prepared to sit down and
say, "Okay, I'm going to take what he's
going to provide in information and I'm
going to give my give it my 100% effort
and I'm going to filter out any kind of
negative.
I'm not going to let anybody tell me
what I think I should think about it.
I'm going to see it for myself."
Aren't you all adults? You should be
adults.
Uh do you feel like you're being
uh
tricked here?
Does it Does it look like there's some
kind of illusion being perpetrated here?
Or is it the logic that I'm trying to
show
that keeps repeating every single day
in the world's largest casino?
Billions of dollars change hands in this
stuff. And here's this guy from Middle
River, Maryland.
Okay?
Used to deliver pizzas, right? And I'm
sitting here telling you what the
fluctuations on this thing's doing on a
1-minute chart. What's the What's the
possibilities of that?
If it was just luck and continuously
keep doing it, right? It's fun, isn't
it? And that's what these individuals
are going to tell you. But if you come
here with a pure mind and you block out
everything else, that is the best way to
learn because you're not
you're not muddied up with
poor logic. Because you end up getting
these pet techniques. Like I had pet
techniques that I picked up in the early
years. I was like, I'm convinced that I
just got to figure out how to do this
one better.
The stochastics divergence. I love the
type two trend following divergence. I
like that more than your standard lower
low in price and a higher low in the
indicator. That was like my favorite
thing to see a higher low when the
market's bullish, but the the stochastic
I was using on an hourly chart would go
lower than the reading it was at the
lower low in price. So, that's a type
two trend following.
And they call it hidden divergence and
that's
you know, later was picked up when I
when it was first released by
um a guy that was producing charts back
then. And Nick Van Nice is his name. So,
he's the one that gave it to the
community. George Lane didn't know and I
love doing it and I love twisting it and
I cuz there's so many people out there
talking about how this one's the reason
engineer of this one. This one's the
founder of this.
You guys have no idea what you're
talking about. Like you literally don't
even know history. Like you don't know.
You're just listening to other people
talk on the internet. So,
in closing, I'm closing it up now. Uh
you got an extra 9 minutes from me. No
extra charge. The
the screen as it looks right now.
If you took everything off of it
and it was a blank chart, which is what
I want you to do.
I want you to take a screenshot of mine
right here as it is in the in the live
stream.
And then
on your own chart, I want you strip
everything away.
Just price alone.
And for my students that have been with
me for a long time, try to remember what
it was like when you looked at those
candlesticks like that and it was
completely foreign to you.
It was like learning a foreign language
you've never seen before.
And now
everything has a rhyme and a reason.
Everything here has a purpose. And when
you understand that and you fully
appreciate it,
it's like rocket fuel. It fuels you. It
keeps you going.
Here's that gap.
Yesterday I was uh showing in the markup
that was being used as a draw that took
us down below the 19,100.50.
Let's see if we get back up into that
today. And then if
if we get above that in here,
that's no let's not do that.
If I do anything, I'll I'll show it to
you in the afternoon.
I've given you enough candy today, okay?
Stop being so greedy.
So,
that's the business for today.
I think uh
if you're here to learn, you you you've
you've got some good good stuff today.
You got a chance to watch how my PD
arrays performed,
how price delivered back and forth, and
how it sought liquidity, and then work
towards that uh upper end of that
opening range
gap.
So, if you'd like to give me a thumbs
up, I promise I'm the only one who can
see it. I wish I could see the thumbs
down because they do make me smile, but
I'm at 98% plus in the likes versus, you
know, the thumbs down. So, you you guys
in the thumbs down category, you got to
you got to get those numbers up. They're
they're they're they're rookie numbers.
And I'll talk talk to you tomorrow, Lord
willing. It'll probably it might be a
London session tomorrow.
So, we might be uh might be meeting
tonight my time, which would be uh
2:00 a.m. to like 4:00 in the morning.
Cuz I promised I'd give you a a London
session. So, I've to
tell you for certain, just check my
community post today at 5:00 Eastern
time.
That'll either confirm that we will be
meeting on live stream at 2:00 a.m.
tonight my local time
for Thursday's trading or if it'll be
Thursday nights for Friday's trading.
It'll be one or the other, but if I'm
not going to do London tonight, I'll be
back tomorrow at opening bell around
9:30 or so. And so, I'll talk to you
then, Lord willing. Be safe.